== Sequence plugin

This will enable one to use SQL-like sequence for id (_id).

Just do

  include MongoMapper::Document
  include UseSequenceAsMongoId

== Strict Keys

When you do

  Foo.create(:explicit_key => 'bar', :implicity_key => 'cake')

even when :implicity_key was not definied (i.e. key :implicity_key, String), MongoMapper will still create the new key and insert the document.

If you want to disable that for mantainability, do

  include SaveToMongoKeysOnly
  include MongoMapper::Document

== Embedded documents without id (_id)

Sometimes there's no reason to use id for embedded documents. Just do

  include NoEmbeddedMongoId
  include MongoMapper::EmbeddedDocument

== Operator 'e'

When you do

  Foo.all(:array => [1,2])

what you get is actually

  Foo.all(:array.in => [1,2])

which is fine in most case, but sometimes you just want to match the exact array (as in spatial data). Now you can do

  Foo.all(:array.e => [1,2])

which guarantees no operator will be used.

== Disclaimer for the new features

All the old tests pass. But I still need to write tests for the new features.

== How to use spatial index
  
  key :lat_lng, Array # or use embedded document type
  ensure_index [[:lat_lng, "2d"]]

= MongoMapper

A Ruby Object Mapper for Mongo.

Releases are tagged on github and released on gemcutter. Master is pushed to whenever I add a patch or a new feature, but I do not release a new gem version each time I push.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself in another branch so I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Install

 $ gem install mongo_mapper

== Problems or Questions?

Hit up the google group.
http://groups.google.com/group/mongomapper

To see if the problem you are having is a verified issue, you can see the MM pivotal tracker project:
http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/33576

There is no need to request to join the Pivotal Tracker project as I am only granting access to a select few (easier to keep things organized). If you have a problem, please use the mailing list. If I confirm it to be a bug, I am happy to add it to PT. Thanks!

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 John Nunemaker. See LICENSE for details.